# Muscat Introduction

**muscat** is a framework for cataloging music documents (handwritten and
printed music scores). It is a Rails application that provides facilities for
creating and managing Marc21 records with a focus on music. The project was
initiated by the United Kingdom working group of the RÃ©pertoire International
des Sources Musicales (RISM) and then developed further by the Swiss working
group. It is released as an open-source project.

## Source code and further documentation

The source code is available on GitHub https://github.com/rism-ch/muscat

The cataloguing guidelines submodule is also available on GitHub
https://github.com/rism-ch/muscat-guidelines

The documentation for version 1.0 and 2.0 (legacy) is available at
http://docs.rism-ch.org/muscat/1.0/

## Application structure

The basic entity in muscat is the Source class, which describes a single
source. The Marc21 data is stored directly in the database, and is parsed to a
Marc object with holding MarcNodes recursively. A MarcNode is a field at the
first level of recursion and a subfield at the second level. Relevant
information (such as author name) is also extracted from the Marc record and
stored in the same database row. A the same time, a Source is put in relation
with the authority data, or foreign classes, stored directly in the database.
The foreign classes representing data are:

*   People (Contributors)
*   Institutions
*   StandardTerms
*   StandardTitles
*   LiturgicalFeasts
*   Catalogues
*   Places

This way all the basic information related to a Source is always available on
the database. Marc21 records and these classes are automatically kept in sync,
using ids to relate the various entities.

The web interface is a standard Rails 4 application following the MVC
paradigm.

Full-text search on the data is handled using the Solr full-text index. Every
time a Source is saved, relevant data is extracted and sent to the index.

How the Marc21 data is managed, and how the interaction between Marc records
and database-stored elements is configured in the tag configuration, in
`config/marc/tag_config*.yml`, one for each model that supports Marc. This
also defines how records should be handled by the system (for example, if a
tag is repeated).

The behavior of the show/edit pages for Marc records is controlled in the
config/editor_profiles directory, using the EditorConfiguration, which, on the
base of the MarcConfig (described above), decide which/how tags are shown or
edited.

